---
layout : post
title: "Demystifying My Works (A chosen few)"
date : 2022-01-16
categories : Research
permalink : /myworks/
---

### <span style="color:green"> **Fields** </span>
- Quantum Physics
    - Optics,
    - Computing.
- Cosmology
    - Interacting dark energy models.

### <span style="color:green"> **Tools for Better Understanding** </span>
Before decomposing my works, the necessary (may not be sufficient) concepts (which I termed as tools in the subtitle) one should be aware are listed below:
 
<span style="color:brown"> **<u> In quantum optics </u>** </span>

- **Coherent states:** With the arrival and developement of lasers, and with the development of quantum theory of radiation, the states that very closely resembles *classical electromagnetic fields* were one of the primary focus of investigation. These closely-resembling-quantum-states are called *coherent states*.

    - **How to generate?** Using classical monochromatic current.

    - **Properties:** 
            (1) Eigenstate of Annihilation operator of the classical monochromatic field.
            (2) The wavepacket always has minimum uncertainty.

    - **Uncertainty distribution:** In case of *classical electromagnetic fields* the waves has well-defined *phase* and *amplitude* i.e. one can measure them with full precision (if the measurement device is promised to be perfect). Meanwhile *quantum mechanically*, there are fluctuations (which arises uncertainty) associated with both the *phase* and *amplitude*. Notably, in *coherent states* the distribution of fluctuation in *phase* and *amplitude* is equal.

- **Squeezed State:** It is a special kind of state in which, the distribution of fluctuations one of the quadratures (i.e. either *amplitude* or *phase* as an example) are reduced below the symmetric quantum limit (i.e. below Heisengerg uncertainty limit). At first look it may look like these states violate Heisenberg uncertainty principle, but that is not the case as in the other canonically conjugate quadrature (mathematically speaking a canonically conjugate pair is defined in such a way that they are Fourier transform duals eg. *position* and *momentum*, *energy* and *time*) the distribution of fluctuation enhances in such manner that the Heisenberg uncertainty principle is not violated.

    - **How to generate?** The most effective generation technique uses an *optical parametric oscillator* (*optical parametric amplification* + *optical cavity*) which generally speaking converts an incident laser wave into two output waves with lower frequency by using second order nonlinear optical interaction. More briefly, *optical parametric oscillator* can be constructed using a *nonlinear crystal* (i.e. crystals with nonlinear susceptibility and that are highly transparent to optical frequency eg. Lithium Niborate and Potassium titanyl phosphate) placed inbetween two or more mirrors (an *optical cavity*).

    - **Properties:** Uncertainty in one of quadrature goes below the standard quantum limit.

    - **Application:** Gravitational wave detection, Photon detection technique, optical comunication, noise-free amplication etc.

- **Heisenberg Langeving Equation:** To understand the dynamics of an open or 
    closed quantum system one need to investigate the rate of change of modes of the the system under consideration (as well as for the reservoir it is interacting with). 
    
    - **Heisenberg's equation of motion:**
        For an example if we consider a Harmonic oscillator (consists of *photon modes*) is interacting with a reservoir (show *phonon-like modes*), we need to consider the rate of change of both photon and phonon mode. 
        
        In Heiseberg's equation of motion the evolution of modes are noise and damping free so for a realistic evolution we need to derive the terms in the evolution.

    - **Langevin equation:**
        After decomposing the Heisenberg's equation of motion we find the two terms (1) the terms which are system (i.e. photon mode) dependent and (2) reservoir (i.e. phonon mode) dependent terms. Now the terms which are of type *(2)* type are responsible for introducing noise and called noise operators. Meanwhile, *the evolution of the harmonic oscillator energy depends upon the fluctuations in reservoir i.e. type (2) terms*. The noise operator varies rapidly due to the reservoir frequency.